Add Consul ECS v0.5 release notes (#14010)
hashicorp/consul: website/content/docs/release-notes/consul-ecs/v0_5_x.mdx

---
layout: docs
page_title: 0.5.x
description: >-
  Consul ECS release notes for version 0.5.x
---

# Consul ECS 0.5.x

## Release Highlights

> - **Audit Logging (Enterprise) :** This feature supports audit logging by providing an `audit-logging` flag, providing a log of authenticated events if enabled.

Author: Suggestion added in [latest commit](https://github.com/hashicorp/consul/pull/14010/commits/d5f334cf1ee381d5d5b60a4bc33d8f5f99ce9f17)

> - **Audit Logging (Enterprise) :** This feature supports audit logging by providing an `audit-logging` flag, providing a log of authenticated events if enabled.

Author: Deferred to @trujillo-adam's [comment](https://github.com/hashicorp/consul/pull/14010#discussion_r940402804) in reference to Consul docs being not the best for this description.

> - **Support Consul AWS IAM auth method :** This feature provides support obtaining ACL tokens from Consul's AWS IAM auth method.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **AWS IAM Auth Method :** This feature provides support for Consul's AWS IAM auth method. This allows AWS IAM roles and users to authenticate with Consul to obtain ACL tokens.
```

Author: Added new phrasing to match @cthain suggestion and linked to appropriate section for configuration info in [latest commit](https://github.com/hashicorp/consul/pull/14010/commits/d5f334cf1ee381d5d5b60a4bc33d8f5f99ce9f17)

> - **Mesh Gateways :** This feature introduces Consul WAN federation via mesh gateways ECS tasks, allowing for Consul servers in different datacenters to be federated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Mesh Gateways :** This feature introduces support for running mesh gateways as ECS tasks. Mesh gateways enable service mesh communication across datacenter and admin partition boundaries.
```

Reviewer 2: I think we can link to the **Configure the gateway task module** topic in the installation page so readers know where to go for usage instructions.

Author: Added new phrasing to match @cthain suggestion and linked to appropriate section for usage info in [latest commit](https://github.com/hashicorp/consul/pull/14010/commits/d5f334cf1ee381d5d5b60a4bc33d8f5f99ce9f17)
